# 07.command-injection

08/05/25

## Recall

- What is Command Injection?
- How does user input affect system-level commands?
- What are common ways to detect command injection?
- What can an attacker do after achieving command execution?

## Notes

### What it is

**Command Injection** is a vulnerability that allows an attacker to execute arbitrary system-level commands on the server by manipulating unsanitized user input. This happens when user input is passed directly into a system command, often via functions like `system()`, `exec()`, or `popen()`, without proper validation or filtering.

Since the attacker gains direct access to the operating system’s shell, command injection is considered a high-impact vulnerability. It can lead to full server compromise, file manipulation, privilege escalation, or even persistence through the creation of backdoors or webshells.

### How to identify it

Command injection is harder to identify than classic web vulnerabilities because it often hides behind legitimate-looking functionality, such as tools that ping a server, convert files, check connectivity, or generate logs.

To test for it, look for input fields or parameters that might be used in backend system commands. Then try injecting basic command separators like `;`, `&&`, or `|` followed by something observable.

Using:

```bash
0; ls /
```

If the command is executed, you might receive output such as:

```bash
/
├── bin -> usr/bin
├── boot
├── dev
├── etc
├── home
├── media
├── mnt
├── opt
├── proc
...

```

This is a clear sign that the input is being directly appended to a system command and the system is executing it.

### How to exploit it

Once command injection is confirmed, the attacker can execute **any arbitrary system command** with the same privileges as the application.

Example with fingerprinting:

```bash
0; whoami; uname -a
```

The level of access depends on how the application is executed

## Summary

Command Injection is a critical vulnerability that allows attackers to execute arbitrary commands on the server’s operating system through improperly validated user input. It typically arises when input is passed directly into shell commands without sanitization. Once exploited, attackers gain direct access to the system, enabling file manipulation, data exfiltration, lateral movement, and persistence. This makes command injection one of the most dangerous vulnerabilities in web applications. -Preventing it requires strong input validation, avoiding the use of shell-based system calls with dynamic user input, and employing secure APIs or language-specific functions designed for safe command execution.