# 01.what-is-go

22/06/25

## Recall

- When and by whom was Go created and released?
- What are some key characteristics of the Go language?
- What kind of applications benefit most from Go?
- How does Go handle concurrency and performance?
- What are some features included in Go’s standard library

## Notes

### What is Go

Go is a compiled programming language developed by Google in 2007 and made public as an open-source project in 2009. Presents features such as:

- Simplicity, clarity and scalability: Provides a simple syntax similar to Python, aiming to help developers to code
- High performance and concurrency: Similar to C/C++, is useful in applications that require concurrency/multithreading
- Batteries included: Comes with a standard library that has many core features out-of-box such as a built-in HTTP server, cryptography libraries, testing framework and so on.
- Static typing: Ensured type safety, allowing developers to catch compiling errors faster

It’s mostly used in areas that require performance and security such as:

- Microservices
- CLI Tools
- Networking applications
- Cybersecurity/DevOps tools

## Summary

Go is a compiled static typed language developed by Google and published as an open-source project in 2009. It becomes a popular language for offering high performance while preserving simple syntax bundled by a powerful standard library. 

Because of its features, Go has become the main choice for developing microservices, networking applications and CLI tools for both cybersecurity and DevOps.