# 02.packages-and-modules

22/06/2025

## Recall

- What is the difference between a package and a module in Go?
- What command initializes a module and what file does it create?
- How do you import a local package within a module?
- Which package is required as the entry point of a Go application?
- What naming rule determines if a function or variable is exported in Go?

## Notes

### Packages

Packages are how Go organizes your code. Even the built-in functions provided by the [standard library](https://pkg.go.dev/std) are structured as packages. Every Go file is bound to a package, and every Go application must have at least a `main` package. The `main` package will be used as the entry point of the application. Packages can be spread across multiple files, and more than one package can be used in the same application.

To create a package, use the keyword `package` followed by the package name. Use the same package name across different files to split it:

```go
package main
```

To import a package, use the keyword `import` followed by the name of the package:

```go
import "fmt"
```

If you wish to import multiple packages, pass the list inside of parenthesis:

```go
import (
	"fmt"
	"math"
)
```

### Modules

A **Go module** is a collection of Go packages with a defined root and dependency tracking, used to build a Go application or library.

To initialize a module:

```bash
go mod init github.com/username/projectname
```

This creates a `go.mod` file with the module path, used for imports and dependency resolution.

To build the app:

```bash
go build
```

It looks for the `main` package and compiles it into an executable.

When using modules, local packages are imported using the full module path:

```bash
import "github.com/username/projectname/utils"
```

Folder structure:

```bash
/projectname
  /utils
    helper.go
  main.go
```

Only identifiers starting with uppercase letters are exported:

```go
// utils/helper.go
package utils

func SayHello() string {
	return "hello"
}
```

You can now use `utils.SayHello()` in other packages.

## Summary

Go organizes code using **packages**, where each file belongs to one and applications start from the `main` package. You can import standard or custom packages using `import`, and group multiple imports with parentheses.

A **module** is a higher-level structure that groups packages and tracks dependencies. It’s initialized with `go mod init`, and built with `go build`. Local packages are imported using the full module path, and only identifiers with uppercase names are exported for use in other packages.