# 06.functions

22/06/2025

## Recall

- How do you define a function in Go?
- How do you declare typed parameters in a function?
- What is the shorthand syntax for multiple parameters with the same type?
- How do you define the return type of a function?
- How can a Go function return multiple values?
- What is the difference between explicit and named return values in Go?
- How do you receive multiple values returned from a function?

## Notes

### Functions

Just like in any other language, Go functions are reusable blocks of code. Functions are usually defined after the `main` function. To define a function, use the `func` keyword:

```go
func foo() {
	// do something...
}
```

A Go function can receive parameters, and they must be typed. To type a parameter, simply specify the wanted type like you would do to a variable:

```go
func foo(foo string, bar string) {
	// do something...
}
```

If multiple parameters share the same type, a shorthand notation can be used:

```go
func foo(foo, bar string) {
	// do something...
}
```

Every Go function must specify a return type. The return type is defined after the parameter list:

```go
func foo(foo, bar string) string {
	// ...
}
```

If no return type is specified, the function does not return any value.

Go allows functions to return multiple values. To do so, specify their types inside parenthesis:

```go
func foo() (string, string) {
	foo := "foo"
	bar := "bar"
	return foo, bar
}
```

Another feature when returning multiple values is declaring the return variables directly in the function signature, eliminating the need for an explicit `return` statement:

```go
func foo() (foo string, bar string) {
	foo = "foo"
	bar = "bar"
	return
}
```

Since the variables are created in the function signature, their types do not need to be explicitly defined again.

When receiving values from a function that returns multiple values, you must specify as many variables as the returned values:

```go
foo, bar := foo()
```

## Summary

In Go, values are printed using the `fmt.Print` and `fmt.Println` functions. Strings are enclosed in double quotes, while single quotes are used for individual characters. Backticks can also be used to preserve line breaks and formatting. For floating-point numbers, `fmt.Printf` allows control over decimal places using format specifiers, such as `%.2f` to display two decimal places. If you need to create a formatted string without printing it immediately, you can use `fmt.Sprint`, `fmt.Sprintf`, or `fmt.Sprintln`, which work similarly to their `Print` counterparts but return the formatted string instead of displaying it directly