# 05.stored-xss

05/05/25

## Recall

- What is Stored XSS?
- What can you do with a stored XSS?
- Why stored XSS could lead to other injection attacks?
- What is a stored XSS payload?

## Notes

### What it is

**Stored XSS (Cross-Site Scripting)** is a type of script injection attack where user input is saved in the database without proper sanitization or encoding.

Besides stored XSS attacks leading to:

- Credential theft (e.g., session hijacking via cookies)
- Redirection to malicious pages
- User impersonation through session data compromise

Stored XSS also allows the attacker to affect **all users** of the application, since the payload is not reflected, but actually persisted and executed every time the exploit content is rendered.

Unlike reflected XSS, stored XSS **does not require any user interaction through links**, making it more dangerous. A successful attack can silently compromise many accounts at once.

### How to identify it

To detect a **stored XSS** vulnerability, try injecting payloads into areas of the application where data is saved, like **forms**

Example:

```bash
POST /post/comment HTTP/1.1
Host: target.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 67

comment=%3Cscript%3Ealert%28%27something%27%29%3C%2Fscript%3E
```

If the application stores and renders the script later:

```bash
<h1>Comments for post <?= $post_name ?></h1>
<p><script>alert('something')</script></p>
```

s photo or profile.

## Summary

Stored XSS is a vulnerability where unsanitized user input is persistently stored in the backend and later rendered in the browser of every user who accesses the affected content. Unlike reflected XSS, stored XSS does not require user interaction through a crafted URL, which makes it more dangerous and scalable. Once triggered, the payload executes as if it were part of the legitimate page, allowing attackers to steal session data, impersonate users, or escalate their access. The persistent nature of the attack can turn a single injection point into a platform-wide compromise.
